# Program Verification

- [Automated Program Refinement: Guide and Verify Code Large Language Model with Refinement Calculus](../venues/POPL2025/paper_1.md), ([POPL2025](../venues/POPL2025/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Recently, the rise of code-centric large language models (LLMs) appears to have reshaped the software engineering world with low-barrier tools like Copilot that can generate code easily. However, there is no correctness guarantee for the code generated by LLMs, which suffer from the hallucination pr...
  - **Labels**: [code generation](../../labels/code_generation.md), [program transformation](../../labels/program_transformation.md), [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md)


- [Baldur: Whole-Proof Generation and Repair with Large Language Models](../venues/FSE2023/paper_3.md), ([FSE2023](../venues/FSE2023/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Formally verifying software is a highly desirable but labor-intensive task.  Recent work has developed methods to automate formal verification using proof assistants, such as Coq and Isabelle/HOL, e.g., by training a model to predict one proof step at a time and using that model to search through th...
  - **Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md)


- [Can ChatGPT support software verification?](../venues/FASE2024/paper_1.md), ([FASE2024](../venues/FASE2024/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Large language models have become increasingly effective in software engineering tasks such as code generation, debugging and repair. Language models like ChatGPT can not only generate code, but also explain its inner workings and in particular its correctness. This raises the question whether we ca...
  - **Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md)


- [Can large language models reason about program invariants?](../venues/ICML2023/paper_3.md), ([ICML2023](../venues/ICML2023/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Identifying invariants is an important program analysis task with applications towards program understanding, bug finding, vulnerability analysis, and formal verification. Existing tools for identifying program invariants rely on dynamic analysis, requiring traces collected from multiple executions ...
  - **Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md)


- [CoqPilot, a plugin for LLM-based generation of proofs](../venues/ASE2024/paper_36.md), ([ASE2024](../venues/ASE2024/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: We present CoqPilot, a VS Code extension designed to help automate writing of Coq proofs. The plugin collects the parts of proofs marked with the admit tactic in a Coq file, i.e., proof holes, and combines LLMs along with non-machine-learning methods to generate proof candidates for the holes. Then,...
  - **Labels**: [code generation](../../labels/code_generation.md), [program synthesis](../../labels/program_synthesis.md), [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md)


- [Enchanting program specification synthesis by large language models using static analysis and program verification](../venues/CAV2024/paper_1.md), ([CAV2024](../venues/CAV2024/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Formal verification provides a rigorous and systematic approach to ensure the correctness and reliability of software systems. Yet, constructing specifications for the full proof relies on domain expertise and non-trivial manpower. In view of such needs, an automated approach for specification synth...
  - **Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md), [specification inference](../../labels/specification_inference.md)


- [Finding inductive loop invariants using large language models](../venues/arXiv2023/paper_10.md), ([arXiv2023](../venues/arXiv2023/README.md))

  - **Abstract**:     Loop invariants are fundamental to reasoning about programs with loops. They establish properties about a given loop's behavior. When they additionally are inductive, they become useful for the task of formal verification that seeks to establish strong mathematical guarantees about program's run...
  - **Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md), [invariant generation](../../labels/invariant_generation.md)


- [Hypothesis search: Inductive reasoning with language models](../venues/ICLR2024/paper_2.md), ([ICLR2024](../venues/ICLR2024/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Inductive reasoning is a core problem-solving capacity: humans can identify underlying principles from a few examples, which can then be robustly generalized to novel scenarios. Recent work has evaluated large language models (LLMs) on inductive reasoning tasks by directly prompting them yielding "i...
  - **Labels**: [code generation](../../labels/code_generation.md), [program synthesis](../../labels/program_synthesis.md), [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md)


- [LLM Meets Bounded Model Checking: Neuro-symbolic Loop Invariant Inference](../venues/ASE2024/paper_7.md), ([ASE2024](../venues/ASE2024/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Loop invariant inference, a key component in program verification, is a challenging task due to the inherent undecidability and complex loop behaviors in practice. Recently, machine learning based techniques have demonstrated impressive performance in generating loop invariants automatically. Howeve...
  - **Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md)


- [LLM-Generated Invariants for Bounded Model Checking Without Loop Unrolling](../venues/ASE2024/paper_23.md), ([ASE2024](../venues/ASE2024/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: We investigate a modification of the classical Bounded Model Checking (BMC) procedure that does not handle loops through unrolling but via modifications to the control flow graph (CFG). A portion of the CFG representing a loop is replaced by a node asserting invariants of the loop. We generate these...
  - **Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md), [invariant generation](../../labels/invariant_generation.md)


- [Lemur: Integrating large language models in automated program verification](../venues/ICLR2024/paper_6.md), ([ICLR2024](../venues/ICLR2024/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: The demonstrated code-understanding capability of LLMs raises the question of whether they can be used for automated program verification, a task that typically demands high-level abstract reasoning about program properties that is challenging for verification tools. We propose a general methodology...
  - **Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md)


- [Ranking llm-generated loop invariants for program verification](../venues/EMNLP2023/paper_13.md), ([EMNLP2023](../venues/EMNLP2023/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Synthesizing inductive loop invariants is fundamental to automating program verification. In this work, we observe that Large Language Models (such as gpt-3.5 or gpt-4) are capable of synthesizing loop invariants for a class of programs in a 0-shot setting, yet require several samples to generate th...
  - **Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md), [invariant generation](../../labels/invariant_generation.md), [prompt strategy](../../labels/prompt_strategy.md), [sampling and ranking](../../labels/sampling_and_ranking.md)


- [Towards AI-Assisted Synthesis of Verified Dafny Methods](../venues/FSE2024/paper_23.md), ([FSE2024](../venues/FSE2024/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Large language models show great promise in many domains, including programming. A promise is easy to make but hard to keep, and language models often fail to keep their promises, generating erroneous code. A promising avenue to keep models honest is to incorporate formal verification: generating pr...
  - **Labels**: [code generation](../../labels/code_generation.md), [program synthesis](../../labels/program_synthesis.md), [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md)


- [Towards General Loop Invariant Generation: A Benchmark of Programs with Memory Manipulation](../venues/NeurIPS2024/paper_7.md), ([NeurIPS2024](../venues/NeurIPS2024/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Program verification is vital for ensuring software reliability, especially in the context of increasingly complex systems. Loop invariants, remaining true before and after each iteration of loops, are crucial for this verification process. Traditional provers and machine learning based methods for ...
  - **Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md), [benchmark](../../labels/benchmark.md)


- [Verified Code Transpilation with LLMs](../venues/NeurIPS2024/paper_4.md), ([NeurIPS2024](../venues/NeurIPS2024/README.md))

  - **Abstract**: Domain-specific languages (DSLs) are integral to various software workflows. Such languages offer domain-specific optimizations and abstractions that improve code readability and maintainability. However, leveraging these languages requires developers to rewrite existing code using the specific DSL'...
  - **Labels**: [code generation](../../labels/code_generation.md), [program synthesis](../../labels/program_synthesis.md), [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program verification](../../labels/program_verification.md)
