# LPR: Large Language Models-Aided Program Reduction

**Authors**: Zhang, Mengxiao and Tian, Yongqiang and Xu, Zhenyang and Dong, Yiwen and Tan, Shin Hwei and Sun, Chengnian

**Abstract**:

Program reduction is a widely used technique to facilitate debugging                compilers by automatically minimizing programs that trigger                compiler bugs. Existing program reduction techniques are either                generic to a wide range of languages (such as Perses and Vulcan)                or specifically optimized for one certain language by exploiting                language-specific knowledge (e.g., C-Reduce). However, synergistically                combining both generality across languages and optimality                to a specific language in program reduction is yet to be explored.                This paper proposes LPR, the first LLMs-aided technique leveraging                LLMs to perform language-specific program reduction for                multiple languages. The key insight is to utilize both the language                generality of program reducers such as Perses and the languagespecific                semantics learned by LLMs. Concretely, language-generic                program reducers can efficiently reduce programs into a small size                that is suitable for LLMs to process; LLMs can effectively transform                programs via the learned semantics to create new reduction opportunities                for the language-generic program reducers to further                reduce the programs.                Our thorough evaluation on 50 benchmarks across three programming                languages (i.e., C, Rust and JavaScript) has demonstrated                LPR’s practicality and superiority over Vulcan, the state-of-the-art                language-generic program reducer. For effectiveness, LPR surpasses                Vulcan by producing 24.93\%, 4.47\%, and 11.71\% smaller programs                on benchmarks in C, Rust and JavaScript, separately. Moreover, LPR                and Vulcan have the potential to complement each other. For the C                language for which C-Reduce is optimized, by applying Vulcan to                the output produced by LPR, we can attain program sizes that are                on par with those achieved by C-Reduce. For efficiency perceived                by users, LPR is more efficient when reducing large and complex                programs, taking 10.77\%, 34.88\%, 36.96\% less time than Vulcan to                finish all the benchmarks in C, Rust and JavaScript, separately.

**Link**: [Read Paper](https://doi.org/10.1145/3650212.3652126)

**Labels**: [code generation](../../labels/code_generation.md), [program transformation](../../labels/program_transformation.md), [program testing](../../labels/program_testing.md), [debugging](../../labels/debugging.md)
