# JavaBench: A Benchmark of Object-Oriented Code Generation for Evaluating Large Language Models

**Authors**: Cao, Jialun and Chen, Zhiyong and Wu, Jiarong and Cheung, Shing-Chi and Xu, Chang

**Abstract**:

Code generation benchmarks such as HumanEval are widely adopted to evaluate LLMs' capabilities. However, after consolidating the latest 24 benchmarks, we noticed three significant imbalances. First, imbalanced programming language. 95.8\% of benchmarks involve Python, while only 5 benchmarks involve Java, resulting in an insufficient understanding of LLMs' capability to generate Java code. Second, imbalanced code granularity. Function-/statement-level benchmarks account for over 83.3\% of benchmarks. Only a mere handful extends to class-/project-levels, and all are limited to Python. Third, lacking advanced features. Existing benchmarks primarily assess basic coding skills (e.g., variables, operators, and control structures), while overlooking advanced Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) features (i.e., encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism). Considering the prevalence of these advanced features in real-world Java project development, constructing benchmarks to test LLMs on handling OOP features is necessary.To fill these gaps, we propose JavaBench, a project-level Java benchmark that exercises OOP features. It comprises four Java projects with 389 methods in 106 Java classes. The test coverage is up to 92\%, and JavaBench is attested by 282 undergraduate students, reaching a 90.93/100 average score (i.e., pass rate against the test suite), ensuring the quality of documentation, code skeleton, and tests. To better evaluate LLM's capability against JavaBench, we introduce a systematic evaluation design covering three context settings and five synthesis strategies at two granularities using three hierarchical metrics. Our extensive experiment yields several interesting findings. First, we noticed that regarding project-level Java programming, LLMs are far behind undergraduate students (no project can be correctly completed by any studied LLMs, and at most 48.24\% Pass@5 in a more relaxed evaluation). Second, using method signature as prompt context may strike an ideal balance for project-level code generation. JavaBench is publicly available at https://github.com/java-bench/JavaBench. We also release a leaderboard and invite model developers to participate and test their models against JavaBench at https://java-bench.github.io/leaderboard.html.

**Link**: [Read Paper](https://doi.org/10.1145/3691620.3695470)

**Labels**: [benchmark](../../labels/benchmark.md), [code generation](../../labels/code_generation.md), [program synthesis](../../labels/program_synthesis.md)
